|\ FS065a|u 2.3 Banner facilitiesThe print banner facilities currently provided are limited and temporary.  There is only one banner specification for both printers.  The total number of characters in the banner plus endtext (including system generated part of the banner) should not exceed 128 characters - any excess may be truncated.Note that the system generated part of the banner has now increased to include the date and time.*PRE, *POST, *BANNER & *ENDTEXT operate exactly as before.  *NOBANNER now has exactly the same effect as *BANNER.The printer table for each printer currently has two extra indicators.  One enables the display of the banner, and the other enables the endtext.  These may be used to avoid displaying a banner on a printer loaded with letter headed paper, or to disable both banner and endtext on a plotter.  These indicators will be removed in due course when the full specification is read from a file.|u 2.4 *FLUSH commandThis new command can be used by system privileged users to discard the contents of both printer buffers.  It is in some degree temporary, in that it will become redundant when spooling is implemented, but this is not likely to happen in the immediate future.|u 3.1 The editprint utilityThis utility is a short BASIC program, used to edit the printer tables.  All program functions require that the user be system privileged, so there is no need to keep the program secure.All input to the program is followed by <return>.  Menus have numeric choices.The main menu allows three main choices : the individual printer tables may be edited, the printer priority table may be changed, or the system message printer may be specified.  Each option will display the current state and prompt for changes, which will have been updated onto disc when control returns to the main menu.  Once the required tables are set up on disc, it is necessary to reset the printer system to bring them into use.  This may be done by pressing RETURN to the main menu prompt, or will happen the next time that the fileserver is re-started.Escape can be pressed at any time to abort the editing; if it is pressed during editing one of the items, any edits made will be discarded.  Once control has returned to the main menu, any edits made will have been stored on disc, and pressing escape merely delays their effect until the next time that the printer server is reset.Resetting the printer server has the effect of terminating any printing that was in progress at the time - the users in question will get a 'No reply' error.  It does not have the effect of a *FLUSH.|u 3.2 New version of *PSThere is now a new version of *PS.  This can be used in the same way as before, eg. *PS 254, to select a particular station.  It now has the additional effect of performing *FX 5,4.  The main purpose of the new version, however, is to specify printers by name.If *PS is followed by the name of a type of printer, eg. *PS DAISY, the station will broadcast onto the network a request for all printer servers with that type of printer to report their status.  The program then waits for a few seconds to see what replies are received.  If any printer server of that type claims to be ready, it is immediately selected, and any other printer servers are ignored.  If a printer server of the correct type replies that it is busy, or offline, this will be displayed on the screen and further replies will be examined.  If there are no further replies, the busy station will be selected in the hope that it will soon become available.  If no replies are recieved at all, the printer server number is left as it was before the call, and the *FX 5,4 is not performed.If *PS is typed with nothing following it, this is treated as if *PS PRINT had been typed.  All printer servers (including the Acorn printer server ROM, if it is fitted to a machine with NFS version 3.60 or better) respond to the name PRINT, so *PS<return> will select any available printer.This system works well for selecting a suitable printer server from several such servers connected to the network, and removes the need to know the actual number of the station currently set up as printer server.  There are further complications when an HDFS is in use, as this has two printer servers attached at the same station number.The HDFS printer server responds to four different printer names : 'PRINT', 'AUTO' and two names given by the system manager to describe the types of printer connected.  Each user that is logged on to the file server has recorded the type of printer which he wishes to use : this will be 'AUTO' or one of the named printers.  When a user first logs on, the AUTO printer is selected, which means that the server will select an appropriate printer at the time that printing starts.  Users who are not logged on to the file server are not allowed to select a particular printer by name : they may be allowed to use one or both of the printers, according to the settings made by the system manager, and the server will select which is to be used in the same manner as for the AUTO printer.  Such 'anonymous' users will find that the printer server will only respond to the name 'PRINT'.  Users who are logged on will be able to select either printer by name, if they are allowed access, and will be able to select the AUTO printer if they have access to any of the printers represented by the AUTO printer.  Selecting PRINT will report the state of whichever printer was previously selected and leave the selection unchanged.|u 4. The release disc|u 4.1 Installing the new fileserverThis software is released on an 80 track BBC DFS format disc.  To install the new fileserver, it is necessary to use two BBC computers : one with an 80 track disc drive, and one running the 'FAST' terminal program.  The fileserver should be placed in configuration mode, and communication established with the 'FAST' terminal.  When this is ready, type CHAIN"POKER" on the computer with the disc drive.  This program will transmit a number of files to the file server, and after each one is transfered it will display a command to be typed on the other computer to write the data onto disc.  The last file to be transferred is a new root directory - |vthis should NOT be written to disc|z if you wish to retain your data.  The poker program indicates on the screen when this optional step has been reached - at this stage the fileserver should be re-started with the 'B' command, and the write command should not be issued.Once the new fileserver program is running, it will be necessary to run the EDITPRINT program to set up the desired printer configuration - the existing state on disc will be that neither printer is marked as existing.|gFS065b