|\ FS065b|u 4.2 Other files on the release discThe file server code is stored in a number of files in directory F on the disc (F.FS1 etc.).  The program POKER has also been described.  The remaining files are various library programs, which may be copied into your library directory using the COPIER utility (a copy of which is provided in case your library does not contain one).COPIERThis is a BASIC program to copy files (of any size) from one filing system to another, in particular from disc to net and vice-versa.  It first prompts for the source and destination filing systems, to which the usual reply would be DISC <return> NET <return>.  The program now prompts repeatedly for the name of a disc file, and, if the file exists, the name under which it should be saved on the net (just <return> for the second filename will save the file under the same name as it was stored on the DFS disc).  Load and execute addresses are copied by this program.PUTGETPRL.PUTGET (saved on disc as P.PUTGET)This pair of files is a package for buffering access to data files where a program requests access one byte at a time, which is very slow.  Putget supports one input file and one output file : any other files will work in the usual (slow) way.  Undesirable effects will arise if the file pointer is moved while being buffered by this version of Putget.  The system is activated by typing *PUTGET : the file PUTGET is in fact a loader program which loads and relocates the main file PRL.PUTGET (ie. PUTGET in directory PRL).  The system should be activated before loading any program, as it adjusts the value of PAGE to reserve some memory.  It is particularly useful for speeding up WORDWISE and similar programs.PSThis is the new version of *PS, described above.EDITPRINT (saved on disc as EDITPRI)This is the program for editing printer tables, described above.MONSWITCHThis is a BASIC program to control the quantity of system messages displayed by the file server.  It asks whether messages in each of two categories should be displayed - normal messages and debugging information.  Normal messages display each * command and load/save request, and this is all that is usually useful.  Debugging messages display a vast amount of information about transfers to and from disc, and will not usually be useful.  If both are disabled (the usual state) only system failure messages will be displayed.  This program can only be used by system privileged users.