.x||\  prin6|w|u7. Details of the 380Z Econet Interface|uHardware|t3The prototype hardware was hand-wired on prototype circuit board, to a fairly simple design. A printed circuit board of standard dimensions to fit the the case of the 380Z computer had to be prepared, and the opertunity was taken to make some improvements to the specification. The computers used for the development of the software had discs directly connected in addition to those accessible through the network, which meant that the network software could be loaded from disc. For a machine with no discs other than those connected to the network, there must clearly be some way of starting the system. Whilst the software could be loaded from cassette tape, this is very inconvenient, and some other method had to be found. Some Read Only Memory is provided on the circuit board which contains enough software to establish the network connection and load files. The remainder of the software (the user interface) is loaded as a file from the file server.|t3Since the standard size of circuit board is larger than that required for the network circuitry, it is cost-effective to find a use for the spare space. The most attractive idea is extra memory : when acting as a File Server, the machine requires as much memory as possible for use as buffer storage to save repeated loading of index information from the disc. With the current low cost of memory, 64k bytes can be provided quite cheaply. An option allows this to be used as main memory for the computer or as a separate cache for the disc system.|w|u8. Glossary of terms|i10|mApplications programA program which performs a task for the user as distinct from programming aids and Operating Systems.|mBitA single binary digit - 0 or 1.|mByteA group of 8 Bits - a number 0-255.|mCP/MAn operating system commonly used with Z80 based microcomputers.|mCP/NETThe network oriented version of CP/M.|mFlagA special sequence of bits used to mark the start and end of a group of data.|mHardwareThe tangible content of a computer : the electronic and mechanical components.|mMachine codeThe form of instructions which may be directly executed by the computer without translation from another language. Often used here to include Assembly code, where the binary patterns of the machine code are replaced by words which are more memorable but retain a one for one relationship with the machine codes.|mOperating SystemPrograms which control the hardware of the computer in order that applications programs can be written without an intimate knowledge of the hardware configuration.|mPacketA unit of transmission on a network, consisting of zero or more bytes of data, surrounded by flags and control information.|mPortIn this context, a port is a number which is used to distinguish the content of an Econet message. Not to be confused with the hardware ports found on some machines.|mSoftwareComputer programs.|mStationA computer connected to a network, ususally allocated a unique station number for identification purposes.|mRxCBAbbreviation for Receive Control Block - a data structure which indicates readiness to accept certain types of message.|w