.x||w99|\ progres|u|cProject progress report 31st January 1985Name of candidate : |vA.R. GORDON|zProject Title : To enhance the performance and capabilities of a file serverProject supervisor : Dr. M. Richards|c----------------------------|dThe project is proceeding substantially in accordance with the original proposal.  There have been no unexpected delays or equipment failures.|s|dThe initial aim to introduce multi-tasking has been achieved.  Some extra work is required in connection with this to improve the performance of the system. Some operations on directories which require updates to pointers held in several disc blocks tend to cause thrashing as whole blocks are moved in and out of main memory.  To reduce this problem, a cache of directory blocks can be kept in main memory, and the design of this is in hand.  Some care is required to optimise the use of available memory, as there is a need to compromise between the efficiency of reading in large blocks at once and the problem of overflowing the cache and gaining no benefit.  A related question is the choice of the optimum number of tasks, which will require measurements of the performance once the cache system has been introduced.|s|dThe second aim of implementing printer spooling has not yet been completed.  Within the structure of the existing single user printer server, support has been introduced for more than one printer and more than one user.  Associated with this has been the design of systems to allow users to select the destination printer and for the system manager to control access to particular printers.  There has been some need for compromise here between the design ideals and the need to remain compatible with the existing network protocols for printer data.|s|dAt the current rate of progress, it seems likely that the completion and optimisation of the two main aims will consume all of the available time.  This means that the third of the original aims (support for magnetic tape), whose extent was to be determined by the available time, will not now be attempted within the project timescale.