.x||r90|\ comwork|u|cSchedule of work for release of Communicator NFS05 sep 86 A.R. Gordon|u Transients - Essential - FinishedFacility for loaded *COMMANDs has been provided.  Current implementation has a minor problem with BRKs which can only be solved readily by doing the work described below.  Some of the utilities which are currently in the UTILS and FSUTILS modules should be removed and re-assembled as transients.|u Separation of net primitives and NFS - V. important - Est 1 weekWork to include replacing BBC style calls with new communicator style ones, and to allow software configuration of the station number.  The current NFS and network primitives are combined in one large module.  Whilst the new interfaces could be grafted on to the existing code, splitting the code gives many advantages (faster development cycle; easier maintainence of the code in the future; option to user to load updated copy of only part of the software etc.).  If we do not split the code for the first release, it would be an incompatible change to do so subsequently.  Penalty compared with adding new interfaces to old code is only about 2 days, so I rate this very important.|u Overhaul of network primitives - Important - at least 1 weekCurrent primitives on the communicator do not operate at full Econet speed, and contain a number of bugs.  Also, some operations are not supported (View, Remote Notify etc. and Remote Procedure call).  It is important that RPC is supported on communicator (required to access X25 gateway), but view / remote / notify are less important commercially.  It is proposed that only the most urgent work is tackled immediately, removing all known ways of totally crashing the machine.  Whilst the other work is important, it may take a long time to complete.|u Elimination of BRKs from NFS - Important - 2 daysNFS currently reports all errors via the BRK mechanism.  This has caused problems for the Phone etc. applications due to BASIC's handling of BRKs, and also in the Transient loader within the NFS.  It is an anomaly in the system, as no other part of the OS uses this mechanism.  Note, however, that modifications to the OS, other device drivers and BASIC are required to support the new scheme.|u Conversion to 16 bit handles - Essential - 1-2 daysRequired to remove special support code from the OS, and also to allow the user to access some of the interfaces which currently need 8-bit handles while OPEN returns 16-bit handles for the same job.|u Support for NetManager etc. - V. Important - 2 daysNetManager can only be made to work currently via 'back-door' interfaces.  This work is to ensure that all the interfaces used by NetManager have been correctly re-implemented (eg. for 16 bit handles) so that NetManager does not have to be re-written when the system is upgraded.|u Multiple log-ons - Desirable - at least 1 weekGeneral principle to be used has been researched.  Requires support from the menu program (a little) and Filestore (a lot).  Not practical for the first release.  May be worth designing the interfaces to be used to avoid compatability problems.|u Changes to OS interfaces - Important - ????Some of the current filing system interfaces do not have the provision to multiplex correctly between RAM, NV and NEt filing systems.  These are expected to change & will obviously require NFS support when they do.  Also, the current NFS has a number of BBC style interfaces which require updating (some required for NetManager above), and comments in the code indicate that OSBGBP is not implemented (it is not clear whether this is true).  Variable amount of work here.|u Netprint - Essential - Est 2 weeksEntirely new module requires writing - J Green to do.  Module name is 'NETPRINT'.  Has configurable parameters for printserver station number and name, either of which may be 'wild' (NB. 'PRINT ' is the conventional wildcard printer name).  Code to be position independant, and to use the standard DTD driver interface.