.x||T45,55|\ BoothRadley collegeAbingdonOxon   OX14 2RHFor the attention of Jolyon Booth		11 June 1984Dear Jolyon,I trust that you have now received the Clock and Terminator set which I dispatched last weekend.  I am now writing to answer the other questions in your letter.Our file server is written to be totally compatible with the Acorn system, and supports all standard facilities.  The enhancements are primarily concerned with access controls and disc space accounting, although there are minor enhancements in several areas.|uIn answer to your specific questions :The system manager can control the allocation of disc space between users.  Our file server supports a concept of accounts, each of which is allocated a disc space limit (rather than a set area of the disc).  There is no requirement that the total space allowed for all accounts should be less than the size of the disc : it is possible to effectively turn off the accounting by giving all accounts a limit larger than the disc itself.  Each user can be granted the right to use any set of these accounts - ordinary users may have access to only one account, while sixth form students may have a personal account and access to some other accounts for group work.  This system offers a large degree of flexibility of both disc space accounting and security.The system does indeed keep track of the time and date - there is a real time clock built in, with its own rechargable battery.  We do, however, suggest that the file server is left to run continuously where possible as this increases the reliability of both winchesters and electronics.The *<fsp> facility is of course supported, as this is an important part of the standard filing system specification.  We supply a few extra utilities in addition to *VIEW etc. : *STATEMENT, for finding the balance on a user's disc space account(s), *STATIONS, which displays the numbers and types of all computers currently connected to the net, and some others.  The standard facility for a library directory, which is searched for any *COMMAND names not found in the current directory, is supported and we have extended this to all file read operations - for example BASIC programs may be stored in the library directory and loaded with the ordinary LOAD command.The 380Z Econet interface takes the form of a single circuit card to be inserted in the card frame of the machine.  As this is a fairly simple operation, we usually supply the card for you to insert.  We are willing to install and test the cards for you, but you would have to pay the carriage in both directions, which is rather expensive as the 380Z is very heavy.  If you were ordering a hard disc file server, the price of that includes on-site installation so we could install 380Z cards at the same time for no extra cost.We have no package of our own to convert a BBC Computer to a printer server : our file server systems all incorporate built in printer servers (the hard disc file server supports two printers: one on the serial interface, one on the parallel).  We can also supply separate printer server software for the 380Z, or if you really wish to use a BBC, we are an Acorn Approved Service Centre and can supply their standard printer server ROM which costs `42.61, plus VAT.|uPrices & Availability :The current 380Z prices are on the back of the enclosed brochure.  We are currently in the process of producing a new batch of 380Z boards to an improved design, so there would be a six week delay if you were to order now.  If you were to order 5 or more, we could offer 7.5% discount.The hard disc file server is available as standard with 20Mbyte of disc and 20Mbyte of tape backing store.  The file server is self contained with its own processors, so a BBC Computer is not required to run the software.  We quote a 'Recomended Retail' price for this product of `5850, but there is an educational discount of 25% so you would pay |v`4387.50|z.  You enquired about larger capacity discs : the only option which we can sensibly offer at present is a second 20Mbyte disc, raising the overall price to `7266 - educational price |v`5449.50|z.  We will be able to offer larger capacity discs in the future, but at present discs larger than 20Mbyte are rather expensive and of questionable reliability.  It will be possible to upgrade an existing file server : in particular, the second drive may be added later at very little extra cost over that of having it installed from the start.We will be releasing the first file servers very soon, but production will initially be slow and we are quoting a 14 week delay on new orders.An extra discount of 2.5% is available on all our prices for cash with order (or, in the case of items not available ex-stock, for cash on delivery).I regret that some of these prices will be greater than those we have quoted on earlier occasions : this is largely due to the world-wide semiconductor shortage which has caused dramatic increases in component prices.All these prices exclude VAT, and are guaranteed for 30 days.  Please check the current prices if you are ordering after that time.I hope that this is of interest, and look forward to hearing from you in the near future.Yours sincerely|uAndrew GordonSystems Engineer